5 2024 DBIR IntroductionIntroduction
Greetings! Welcome to Verizon’s 2024 Data Breach Investigations Report (DBIR). 
This year marks the 17th edition of this publication, and we are thrilled to welcome 
back our old friends and say hello to new readers. As always, the aim of the DBIR is 
to shine a light on the various Actor types, the tactics they utilize and the targets they 
choose. Thanks to our talented, generous and civic-minded contributors from around 
the world who continue to stick with us and share their data and insight, and deep 
appreciation for our very own Verizon Threat Research Advisory Center (VTRAC) 
team (rock stars that they are). These two groups enable us to examine and analyze 
relevant trends in cybercrime that play out on a global stage across organizations of 
all sizes and types.
From year to year, we see new and innovative attacks as well as variations on tried-
and-true attacks that still remain successful. From the exploitation of well-known 
and far-reaching zero-day vulnerabilities, such as the one that affected MOVEit, to 
the much more mundane but still incredibly effective Ransomware and Denial of 
Service (DoS) attacks, criminals continue to do their utmost to prove the old adage 
“crime does not pay” wrong.
The shifting landscape of cyber threats can be confusing and overwhelming. When, 
in addition to the attack types mentioned above, one throws in factors such as the 
human element and/or poorly protected passwords, things become even more 
confused. One might be forgiven for viewing the current state of cybersecurity 
as a colorful cyber Mardi Gras parade. Enterprise floats of all shapes and sizes 
cruising past a large crowd of threat actors who are shouting out gleefully “Throw 
me some creds!” Of course, human nature being what it is, all too often, the folks 
on the floats do just that. And, as with all such parades, what is left in the aftermath 
isn’t necessarily pretty. The past year has been a busy one for cybercrime. We 
analyzed 30,458 real-world security incidents, of which 10,626 were confirmed data 
breaches (a record high!), with victims spanning 94 countries.
While the general structure of the report remains the same, long-time readers may 
notice a few changes. For example, the “first-time reader” section is now located in 
Appendix A rather than at the beginning of the report. But we do encourage those 
who are new to the DBIR to give it a read-through before diving into the report. It 
should help you get your bearings.
Last, but certainly not least, we extend a most sincere thanks yet again to our 
contributors (without whom we could not do this) and to our readers (without whom 
there would be no point in doing it).
Sincerely,
The Verizon DBIR Team 
C. David Hylender, Philippe Langlois, Alex Pinto, Suzanne Widup
Very special thanks to:
– Christopher Novak for his continued support and insight
– Dave Kennedy and Erika Gifford from VTRAC
–  Kate Kutchko, Marziyeh Khanouki and Yoni Fridman from the Verizon Business 
Product Data Science Team6
2024 DBIR Helpful guidanceHelpful guidance
About the 2024 DBIR incident dataset
Each year, the DBIR timeline for in-scope incidents is from November 1 of one 
calendar year through October 31 of the next calendar year. Thus, the incidents 
described in this report took place between November 1, 2022, and October 31, 
2023. The 2023 caseload is the primary analytical focus of the 2024 report, but 
the entire range of data is referenced throughout, notably in trending graphs. The 
time between the latter date and the date of publication for this report is spent in 
acquiring the data from our global contributors, anonymizing and aggregating that 
data, analyzing the dataset, and finally creating the graphics and writing the report. 
The jokes, sadly, do not write themselves.
Credit where credit is due
Turns out folks enjoy citing the report, and we often get asked how to go about 
doing it.
You are permitted to include statistics, figures and other information from the report, 
provided that (a) you cite the source as “Verizon 2024 Data Breach Investigations 
Report” and (b) the content is not modified in any way. Exact quotes are permitted, 
but paraphrasing requires review. If you would like to provide people a copy of the 
report, we ask that you provide them a link to verizon.com/dbir  rather than the PDF.
Questions? Comments? Concerns? Love to 
share cute pet pictures?
Let us know! Send us a note at dbir@verizon.com , find us on LinkedIn, 
tweet @VerizonBusiness  with #dbir. Got a data question?  
Tweet @VZDBIR !
If your organization aggregates incident or security data and is interested 
in becoming a contributor to the annual Verizon DBIR (and we hope you 
are), the process is very easy and straightforward. Please email us at  
dbircontributor@verizon.com .7
Figure 2. Ransomware and Extortion breaches over time
Summary of findings
Our ways-in analysis witnessed a 
substantial growth of attacks involving 
the exploitation of vulnerabilities as the 
critical path to initiate a breach when 
compared to previous years. It almost 
tripled (180% increase) from last year, 
which will come as no surprise to 
anyone who has been following the 
effect of MOVEit and similar zero-day 
vulnerabilities. These attacks were 
primarily leveraged by Ransomware 
and other Extortion-related threat 
actors. As one might imagine, the main 
vector for those initial entry points was 
Web applications.
2024 DBIR Summary of findingsFigure 1. Select ways-in enumerations in non-Error, non-Misuse breaches 
(n=6,963)
Roughly one-third of all breaches 
involved Ransomware or some other 
Extortion technique. Pure Extortion 
attacks have risen over the past year 
and are now a component of 9% of 
all breaches. The shift of traditional 
ransomware actors toward these newer 
techniques resulted in a bit of a decline 
in Ransomware to 23%. However, when 
combined, given that they share threat 
actors, they represent a strong growth 
to 32% of breaches. Ransomware was 
a top threat across 92% of industries.8
 2024 DBIR Summary of findingsWe have revised our calculation of the 
involvement of the human element to 
exclude malicious Privilege Misuse in 
an effort to provide a clearer metric of 
what security awareness can affect. For 
this year’s dataset, the human element 
was a component of 68% of breaches, 
roughly the same as the previous period 
described in the 2023 DBIR.
In this issue, we are introducing an 
expanded concept of a breach involving 
a third party that includes partner 
infrastructure being affected and 
direct or indirect software supply chain 
issues—including when an organization 
is affected by vulnerabilities in third-
party software. In short, those are 
breaches an organization could 
potentially mitigate or prevent by trying 
to select vendors with better security 
track records. We see this figure at 
15% this year, a 68% increase from the 
previous year, mostly fueled by the use 
of zero-day exploits for Ransomware 
and Extortion attacks.
Our dataset saw a growth of breaches 
involving Errors, now at 28%, as we 
broadened our contributor base to 
include several new mandatory breach 
notification entities. This validates 
our suspicion that errors are more 
prevalent than media or traditional 
incident response-driven bias would 
lead us to believe.
Figure 3. Select key enumerations in breaches9
Figure 4. Phishing email report rate by click status
2024 DBIR Summary of findingsFinancially motivated threat actors will 
typically stick to the attack techniques 
that will give them the most return  
on investment.
Over the past three years, the 
combination of Ransomware and 
other Extortion breaches accounted 
for almost two-thirds (fluctuating 
between 59% and 66%) of those 
attacks. According to the FBI’s 
Internet Crime Complaint Center 
(IC3) ransomware complaint data, 
the median loss associated with the 
combination of Ransomware and 
other Extortion breaches has been 
$46,000, ranging between $3 (three 
dollars) and $1,141,467 for 95% of the 
cases. We also found from ransomware 
negotiation data contributors that 
the median ratio of initially requested 
ransom and company revenue is 1.34%, 
but it fluctuated between 0.13% and 
8.30% for 80% of the cases.
Similarly, over the past two years, we 
have seen incidents involving Pretexting 
(the majority of which had Business 
Email Compromise [BEC] as the 
outcome) accounting for one-fourth 
(ranging between 24% and 25%) of 
financially motivated attacks. In both 
years, the median transaction amount 
of a BEC was around $50,000, also 
according to the FBI IC3 dataset.The overall reporting rate of Phishing 
has been growing over the past few 
years. In security awareness exercise 
data contributed by our partners during 
2023, 20% of users reported phishing 
in simulation engagements, and 11% 
of the users who clicked the email 
also reported. This is welcome news 
because on the flip side, the median 
time to click on a malicious link after the 
email is opened is 21 seconds and then 
only another 28 seconds for the person 
caught in the phishing scheme to enter 
their data. This leads to an alarming 
finding: The median time for users  
to fall for phishing emails is less than  
60 seconds. Figure 4. Phishing email report rate by click status
Figure 5. Select action varieties in Financial motive over time