Welcome to Verizon's 2024 Data Breach Investigations Report (DBIR). We see new attacks each year, as well as variations on older attacks. Criminals continue to exploit vulnerabilities, such as the one that affected MOVEit, and use ransomware and Denial of Service (DoS) attacks. The past year has been busy for cybercrime. We analyzed 30,458 security incidents, of which 10,626 were confirmed data breaches. The report's structure remains the same, but there are a few changes. We encourage new readers to read it before diving into the report. We thank our contributors and readers for making this report possible. The DBIR timeline for incidents is from November 1 of one year through October 31 of the next year. The incidents described in this report took place between November 1, 2022, and October 31, 2023. The report focuses primarily on the data from 2023. We acquire data from our global contributors, anonymize and aggregate it, analyze it, and create the graphics and write the report. People often ask how to cite the report. Attacks that exploit vulnerabilities have significantly increased, almost tripling from last year. These attacks are primarily used by ransomware and extortion threat actors. (Verizon 2024 Data Breach Investigations Report)

Ransomware or some other extortion technique was involved in roughly one-third of all breaches. Pure extortion attacks have increased over the past year and now account for 9% of all breaches. Ransomware has declined slightly to 23% as traditional ransomware actors have shifted to newer techniques. However, when combined, they represent a strong growth to 32% of breaches because they share threat actors. Ransomware was a top threat across 92% of industries. (Verizon 2024 Data Breach Investigations Report)

The human element was a component of 68% of breaches. This number is roughly the same as the previous period described in the 2023 DBIR. (Verizon 2024 Data Breach Investigations Report)

Breaches involving a third party, including partner infrastructure being affected and direct or indirect software supply chain issues, have been expanded to include vulnerabilities in third-party software. This figure is 15% this year, a 68% increase from the previous year, mostly fueled by the use of zero-day exploits for ransomware and extortion attacks. (Verizon 2024 Data Breach Investigations Report)

The number of breaches involving errors has grown to 28% as the contributor base has expanded to include new mandatory breach notification entities. (Verizon 2024 Data Breach Investigations Report)

Financially motivated threat actors tend to use attack techniques that will give them the highest return on investment. (Verizon 2024 Data Breach Investigations Report)

Over the past three years, ransomware and other extortion breaches have accounted for almost two-thirds (between 59% and 66%) of those attacks. (Verizon 2024 Data Breach Investigations Report) 
The median loss from ransomware and extortion breaches is $46,000. Pretexting attacks, with BEC as the outcome, account for 24% to 25% of financially motivated attacks. After that, it takes another 28 seconds for them to enter their data.